docs(federated-logs): add New Relic Federated Logs setup guide (#3120)
newrelic/terraform-provider-newrelic: website/docs/guides/federated_logs_guide.html.markdown

---

> layout: "newrelic"

Reviewer: Is it aligned with our public docs?

Author: Hi @maya-jha, The structure is aligned with the terraform guides, if that's what you are referring to.

      # cluster_name           = "my-cluster" # required if auth_mode = "pod_identity"
    }
  }
}
```

Key variables:

* `data_processing_module_name` — Name used in resource naming (3–26 lowercase alphanumeric characters, hyphens allowed but not at the start or end).
* `newrelic_org_id` — Your New Relic organization ID.
* `fleet_entity_guid` — The NGEP entity GUID of the PCG fleet that will forward logs to this storage stack.
* `newrelic_region` (Optional) — New Relic region context. One of `US` (default).
* `clusters` — Map of EKS cluster configs used to build the base role trust policy. Every entry must share the same `auth_mode` (`irsa` or `pod_identity`); mixing modes is rejected.
  * `auth_mode = "irsa"` requires `oidc_provider_arn`.
  * `auth_mode = "pod_identity"` requires `cluster_name`.
* `parallelism`, `parallelism_per_kpu`, `auto_scaling_enabled` (Optional) — Flink runtime tuning. Defaults are sized for typical ingestion volume.

The module exports `base_role_arn` and `base_role_name`. The newly created `newrelic_aws_connection` entity is the fleet ingest connection that Stage 2 references implicitly via `fleet_entity_guid`.

<a id="stage-2-federated-logs-setup"></a>

> #### Stage 2: Federated Logs Setup (per setup)

Reviewer: We need to document terraform/UI interactions, so that user should be able to follow this guide to complete the integration. We need to also think whether for a given section we can simply provide a link to another doc or we provide documentation here itself.

Author: Hi @maya-jha, I've updated the docs and added a "Activate the data path" section. Can you please check?

---
layout: "newrelic"
page_title: "Getting Started with New Relic Federated Logs"
sidebar_current: "docs-newrelic-provider-federated-logs-guide"
description: |-
  Use this guide to set up New Relic Federated Logs end-to-end through Terraform.
---

## Getting Started with New Relic Federated Logs

> With [New Relic Federated Logs](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs/) your log data stays securely in your own AWS environment. You can still query it directly from the New Relic platform alongside the rest of your telemetry.

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't "Federated Logs" be DNT?

Reviewer 3: not required

> This guide describes how to use Terraform to fully automate the provisioning of the Federated Logs setup, including both the AWS data plane and the New Relic control-plane entities.

Reviewer 3: club it with line 11. no need of separate para here.

Use the links below to go to the relevant sections:

- [Architecture overview](#architecture-overview)
- [Resources covered](#resources-covered)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)

> - [End-to-end onboarding with the `terraform-aws-federated-logs` modules](#onboarding)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Onboarding with the `terraform-aws-federated-logs` modules](#onboarding)
```

Author: Fixed.

  - [Stage 1: Data Processing (per fleet)](#stage-1-data-processing)
  - [Stage 2: Federated Logs Setup (per setup)](#stage-2-federated-logs-setup)
- [Activate the data path](#activate)
- [Test the setup](#test)

> - [Adding partitions to an existing setup](#adding-partitions)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Add partitions to an existing setup](#adding-partitions)
```

Author: Fixed.

> - [Querying federated logs](#query-federated-logs)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Query federated logs](#query-federated-logs)
```

Author: Hi @sujitnewrelic, does this align with above comment for using "Adding partitions" instead of "Add partitions".

Author: Should we keep using "Querying" here?

Reviewer 3: Hi @Aashirwadjain . As per the style guide, we should not start a heading with an ing form of a verb. So, the line 25 will be "Add partitions to an existing setup".

Author: Okay, Thanks! @sujitnewrelic

> - [Deleting a setup or partition](#cleanup)

Reviewer 3: Not required

Author: Fixed

>   - [Deleting a setup](#delete-setup)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - [Delete a setup](#delete-setup)
```

Author: Fixed

>   - [Deleting a partition](#delete-partition)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - [Delete a partition](#delete-partition)
```

Author: Fixed

> **NOTE:** Federated Logs is currently provided as a limited preview. Your organization must be enrolled in the preview before these resources will function. See [Enroll in the limited preview program](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs/#enroll) in the product docs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NOTE:**Federated Logs is currently in limited preview. To enroll your organization in the preview, refer [Enroll in the limited preview program](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs/#enroll).
```

Author: Hi @sujitnewrelic, This suggested change also includes the preview link. What should we replace the link with (if we don't want to include it)? 
https://github.com/newrelic/terraform-provider-newrelic/pull/3120#discussion_r3773739955

> **NOTE:** A few steps in the onboarding flow require the New Relic UI (for example, defining routing conditions and rolling out the gateway configuration). Wherever a UI step is required, this guide points to the matching section of the [Federated Logs product docs](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs/) instead of repeating the wizard walkthrough here.

Reviewer 3: This note better fits after the first para.

### Architecture overview

Federated Logs has two distinct provisioning stages:

> 1. **Data Processing** — applied **once per Pipeline Control Gateway (PCG) fleet**. This stage creates the fleet-level cross-account IAM base role, the ABAC inline policy that lets it assume per-setup writer roles, the SQS queue and AWS Managed Flink job that update Iceberg metadata, and the [`newrelic_aws_connection`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/newrelic/newrelic/latest/docs/resources/aws_connection) entity that stores the base role ARN against the fleet.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. **Data processing related setup** — applied **once per Pipeline Control Gateway (PCG) fleet**. In this stage, it creates:
- Fleet-level cross-account IAM base role
- ABAC inline policy that lets it assume per-setup writer roles
- SQS queue and AWS Managed Flink job to update Iceberg metadata
- The [`newrelic_aws_connection`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/newrelic/newrelic/latest/docs/resources/aws_connection) entity to store the base role ARN against the fleet
```

> 1. **Data Processing** — applied **once per Pipeline Control Gateway (PCG) fleet**. This stage creates the fleet-level cross-account IAM base role, the ABAC inline policy that lets it assume per-setup writer roles, the SQS queue and AWS Managed Flink job that update Iceberg metadata, and the [`newrelic_aws_connection`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/newrelic/newrelic/latest/docs/resources/aws_connection) entity that stores the base role ARN against the fleet.

Reviewer 2: The first word after the - should be capitalized.

> 2. **Federated Logs Setup** — applied **once per log setup**. This stage creates the S3 bucket, the Glue catalog database, the `pcg-writer` IAM role (trusted by the fleet base role via ABAC tag matching), the New Relic reader IAM role for cross-account query access, the Iceberg tables, the [`newrelic_federated_logs_setup`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/newrelic/newrelic/latest/docs/resources/federated_logs_setup) entity, and any [`newrelic_federated_logs_partition`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/newrelic/newrelic/latest/docs/resources/federated_logs_partition) entities you declare.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. **Federated logs setup** — applied **once per log setup**. In this stage, it creates:
- S3 bucket
- Glue catalog database
- The `pcg-writer` IAM role (trusted by the fleet base role via ABAC tag matching)
- The New Relic reader IAM role for cross-account query access
- Iceberg tables
- The [`newrelic_federated_logs_setup`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/newrelic/newrelic/latest/docs/resources/federated_logs_setup) entity, and any [`newrelic_federated_logs_partition`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/newrelic/newrelic/latest/docs/resources/federated_logs_partition) entities you declare.
```

> The `fleet_entity_guid` produced by your PCG installation is the key that links the two stages together. A single fleet can host multiple setups; you only need to run Stage 1 once per fleet.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `fleet_entity_guid` produced by your PCG installation is the key that links the two stages together. A single fleet can host multiple setups; you only need to run the first stage once per fleet.
```

|---|---|
| [`newrelic_aws_connection`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/newrelic/newrelic/latest/docs/resources/aws_connection) | Wraps an AWS IAM role ARN so New Relic can authenticate into your AWS account. Federated Logs uses two of these — one for the fleet base role (data ingest path) and one for the per-setup reader role (query path). |
| [`newrelic_federated_logs_setup`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/newrelic/newrelic/latest/docs/resources/federated_logs_setup) | Creates the setup entity in New Relic. Ties together the storage bucket, Glue database, ingest and query connections, the default partition, and the forwarder (Pipeline Control Gateway fleet) routing rule. |
| [`newrelic_federated_logs_partition`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/newrelic/newrelic/latest/docs/resources/federated_logs_partition) | Creates an additional partition under an existing setup. Each partition maps to its own Iceberg table and has its own retention policy and OTTL routing expression. |

### Prerequisites

Before you onboard Federated Logs through Terraform, confirm the following:

* Your New Relic organization is **enrolled in the Federated Logs limited preview**.

> * A **Pipeline Control Gateway fleet** is already deployed in your Kubernetes environment, with its DNS endpoint reachable from your log sources, and you know its **`fleet_entity_guid`**. If you don't yet have a fleet, follow [Getting Started with New Relic Fleet Control](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/newrelic/newrelic/latest/docs/guides/fleet_getting_started) and the [Pipeline Control Gateway documentation](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/new-relic-control/pipeline-control/overview/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* A **Pipeline Control Gateway fleet** is already deployed in your Kubernetes environment, with its DNS endpoint reachable from your log sources, and you have its **`fleet_entity_guid`**. If you don't yet have a fleet, refer [Getting Started with New Relic Fleet Control](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/newrelic/newrelic/latest/docs/guides/fleet_getting_started) and the [Pipeline Control Gateway documentation](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/new-relic-control/pipeline-control/overview/).
```

Author: Fixed.

* Your **log sources are pointed at the gateway endpoint** rather than sending logs directly to New Relic. The per-source configuration (APM agents, infrastructure agent, Fluent Bit, Fluentd) is covered in [Configure your log source](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs/#configure-source) in the product docs.

> * Federated Logs currently supports **AWS only**. The Query engine is deployed in **`us-west-2`** and **`ap-south-1`**. Provision your AWS resources in one of these supported regions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

* Your AWS resources in any of the supported regions are provisioned. Federated Logs currently supports **AWS only**. The Query engine is deployed in **`us-west-2`** and **`ap-south-1`**.
```

Reviewer 2: This phrasing is better "Provision your AWS resources in one of these supported regions."

Author: so should I keep the existing one here @sujitnewrelic ?

* You have an **AWS account** with permissions to create S3 buckets, SQS queues, Glue catalogs, AWS Managed Flink applications, and IAM roles.
* You have **Terraform >= 1.6.0**, the **New Relic provider >= 3.91.0**, and the **AWS provider >= 6.36.0** configured.
* Export your New Relic credentials as environment variables before running Terraform. They are read directly from the environment:

  ```sh
  export NEW_RELIC_API_KEY="NRAK-..."          # required by both stages (NerdGraph)
  export NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY="..."           # required by Stage 1 only (Flink → New Relic metrics)
  ```

> **NOTE:** These guides assume you've already configured the New Relic and AWS providers with the correct credentials. If you haven't done so, see the [New Relic provider getting started guide](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/newrelic/newrelic/latest/docs/guides/getting_started) and the [AWS provider authentication docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs#authentication-and-configuration).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** These guides assume you've already configured the New Relic and AWS providers with the correct credentials. If you haven't done so, refer the [New Relic provider getting started guide](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/newrelic/newrelic/latest/docs/guides/getting_started) and the [AWS provider authentication docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs#authentication-and-configuration).
```

Author: Fixed.

<a id="onboarding"></a>

> ### End-to-end onboarding with the `terraform-aws-federated-logs` modules

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Onboarding with the `terraform-aws-federated-logs` modules
```

Author: Fixed.

The [`terraform-aws-federated-logs`](https://github.com/newrelic/terraform-aws-federated-logs) repository ships two modules, one for each stage, that provision the AWS infrastructure and create the matching New Relic control-plane entities (`newrelic_aws_connection`, `newrelic_federated_logs_setup`, and the default `newrelic_federated_logs_partition`). These modules capture all of the cross-resource wiring (ABAC tags, IAM trust policies, SQS notifications, Glue table parameters, optimizer settings) in one place.

> **IMPORTANT:** Run Stage 1 (`data_processing`) before Stage 2 (`federated_logs_setup`). The `fleet_entity_guid` produced by your PCG installation is the input that links the two.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**IMPORTANT:** Run Stage 1 (`data_processing`) before Stage 2 (`federated_logs_setup`). The `fleet_entity_guid` produced by your PCG installation is the input for the stage 2.
```

* SQS queue, AWS Managed Flink job (the `flink-iceberg-commit-worker`), and supporting CloudWatch resources.
* A `newrelic_aws_connection` entity in New Relic storing the base role ARN, plus a `HAS_FED_LOGS_BASE_ROLE` relationship from the fleet entity to that connection.

```hcl
module "data_processing" {
  source = "git::https://github.com/newrelic/terraform-aws-federated-logs.git//modules/data_processing"

  data_processing_module_name = "my-app-logs"
  newrelic_org_id             = "YOUR_NR_ORG_ID"
  fleet_entity_guid           = "YOUR_FLEET_ENTITY_GUID"
  newrelic_region             = "US"           # "US" (default)

  clusters = {
    "prod-cluster" = {
      k8s_namespace            = "federated-logs"
      auth_mode                = "irsa"        # "irsa" or "pod_identity"
      k8s_service_account_name = "pcg-writer-sa"
      oidc_provider_arn        = "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:oidc-provider/oidc.eks.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/id/EXAMPLE"
      # cluster_name           = "my-cluster" # required if auth_mode = "pod_identity"
    }
  }
}
```

Key variables:

> * `data_processing_module_name` — Name used in resource naming (3–26 lowercase alphanumeric characters, hyphens allowed but not at the start or end).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `data_processing_module_name` — Name used in resource naming (3–26 lowercase alphanumeric characters (At the start or end, hyphens not allowed).
```

Reviewer 2: Edit: Don't begin or end the name with a hyphen

* `newrelic_org_id` — Your New Relic organization ID.
* `fleet_entity_guid` — The NGEP entity GUID of the PCG fleet that will forward logs to this storage stack.
* `newrelic_region` (Optional) — New Relic region context. One of `US` (default).

> * `clusters` — Map of EKS cluster configs used to build the base role trust policy. Every entry must share the same `auth_mode` (`irsa` or `pod_identity`); mixing modes is rejected.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `clusters` — Map of EKS cluster configs used to build the base role trust policy. Every entry must share the same `auth_mode` (`irsa` or `pod_identity`); mixing modes is no allowed.
```

Reviewer 2: Edit: mixing modes is not allowed

Author: Fixed.

  * `auth_mode = "irsa"` requires `oidc_provider_arn`.
  * `auth_mode = "pod_identity"` requires `cluster_name`.
* `parallelism`, `parallelism_per_kpu`, `auto_scaling_enabled` (Optional) — Flink runtime tuning. Defaults are sized for typical ingestion volume.

The module exports `base_role_arn` and `base_role_name`. The newly created `newrelic_aws_connection` entity is the fleet ingest connection that Stage 2 references implicitly via `fleet_entity_guid`.

<a id="stage-2-federated-logs-setup"></a>
#### Stage 2: Federated Logs Setup (per setup)

The root `terraform-aws-federated-logs` module is deployed **once per setup**. It creates:

* An S3 bucket and a Glue catalog database for log storage.
* A `pcg-writer` IAM role trusted by the fleet base role via ABAC tag matching.
* A New Relic reader IAM role for cross-account query access.
* Iceberg tables (one default plus any additional `partition_tables` you declare) with configurable optimizer and retention settings.

> * A `newrelic_federated_logs_setup` entity and a default `newrelic_federated_logs_partition`, plus a `newrelic_aws_connection` entity wrapping the reader role (used as `query_connection_id` on the setup).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* A `newrelic_federated_logs_setup` entity, a default `newrelic_federated_logs_partition` entity, and a `newrelic_aws_connection` entity wrapping the reader role (used as `query_connection_id` on the setup).
```

Author: Fixed.

      "write.metadata.delete-after-commit.enabled" = "true"
      "write.metadata.previous-versions-max"       = "10"
    }
    optimizer_configuration = {
      orphan_file_deletion = {
        orphan_file_retention_period_in_days = 3
        run_rate_in_hours                    = 24
      }
      snapshot_retention = {
        snapshot_retention_period_in_days = 1
        number_of_snapshots_to_retain     = 1
        clean_expired_files               = false
        run_rate_in_hours                 = 3
      }
      compaction = {
        strategy              = "binpack"
        min_input_files       = 5
        delete_file_threshold = 1
      }
    }
  }

  # Additional partitions. Each entry can override retention, table_parameters,
  # optimizer_configuration, routing_expression, and/or description.
  partition_tables = {
    "Log_application" = {
      retention_in_days = 5
    }
    "Log_security" = {
      retention_in_days = 10
      optimizer_configuration = {
        compaction = {
          strategy              = "binpack"
          min_input_files       = 10
          delete_file_threshold = 2
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Key variables:

> * `setup_name` — Name for this setup. Used in AWS resource naming; 3–26 lowercase alphanumeric characters (hyphens allowed but not at the start or end).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `setup_name` — Name for this setup. Used in AWS resource naming; 3–26 lowercase alphanumeric characters (At the start or end, hyphens not allowed).
```

Reviewer 2: See my earlier edit for this.

* `partition_tables` (Optional) — Map of additional partition tables; each entry may override `retention_in_days`, `table_parameters`, `optimizer_configuration`, `routing_expression`, and `description`. Each entry becomes a `newrelic_federated_logs_partition` under the setup.
* `e2e_validation_config` (Optional) — When enabled, the module deploys an AWS Lambda that POSTs a synthetic log through your PCG endpoint, polls NRDB for the log, and reports `HEALTHY` / `UNHEALTHY` back to New Relic. Useful in CI/CD to gate `terraform apply` on a working data path.

Useful outputs:

* `newrelic_federated_logs_setup_id` — The setup entity GUID. Pass this as `setup_id` when you later add partitions.
* `newrelic_default_partition_id` — The entity GUID of the default partition created alongside the setup.
* `newrelic_query_connection_id` — The entity GUID of the per-setup `newrelic_aws_connection` wrapping the reader role.
* `s3_bucket_name`, `glue_database_name`, `pcg_writer_role_arn`, `nr_reader_role_arn`, `iceberg_tables` — Underlying AWS resources.

<a id="activate"></a>
### Activate the data path

> A successful `terraform apply` creates the setup and links it to your fleet, but no logs flow until you define routing conditions and roll the gateway configuration out. In the Federated Logs setup wizard, add the OTTL conditions that decide which logs are routed to federated storage, then trigger a fleet deployment so the gateway pods pick up the new config. See [Set up routing conditions](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs/#set-up-routing-conditions) and [Update gateway configuration](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs/#update-gateway-configuration).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A successful `terraform apply` creates the setup and links it to your fleet, but no logs flow until you define routing conditions and roll the gateway configuration. In the Federated Logs setup wizard, add the OTTL conditions that decide which logs are routed to federated storage, then trigger a fleet deployment so the gateway pods pick up the new config. refer [Set up routing conditions](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs/#set-up-routing-conditions) and [Update gateway configuration](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs/#update-gateway-configuration).
```

Author: Fixed.

<a id="test"></a>
### Test the setup

> Once the gateway configuration is rolled out, validate the end-to-end data path before treating the setup as done. The recommended path is Terraform-driven: enable the module's `e2e_validation_config`, which provisions an AWS Lambda inside your VPC that POSTs a synthetic log through your PCG endpoint, polls NRDB for the log, and reports `HEALTHY` / `UNHEALTHY` back to New Relic via the `federatedLogsUpdateSetup` mutation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After the gateway configuration is rolled out, validate the end-to-end data path before treating the setup as done. The recommended path is Terraform-driven: enable the module's `e2e_validation_config`, which provisions an AWS Lambda inside your VPC that POSTs a synthetic log through your PCG endpoint, polls NRDB for the log, and reports `HEALTHY` / `UNHEALTHY` back to New Relic via the `federatedLogsUpdateSetup` mutation.
```

Author: Fixed.

```hcl
module "federated_logs" {
  # ... your existing config ...

  e2e_validation_config = {
    enabled      = true
    pcg_endpoint = "https://gateway.yourcompany.com"
    test_payload = jsonencode({ message = "federated-logs e2e test", level = "info" })

    vpc_config = {
      subnet_ids         = ["subnet-0a1b2c3d4e5f60718"]
      security_group_ids = ["sg-0a1b2c3d4e5f60710"]
    }
  }
}
```

After `terraform apply`, the module's `e2e_validation_status` output reports `PASS` on a successful round-trip through the gateway to NRDB, and a failure marker otherwise. `e2e_validation_result` carries the full Lambda response — `status`, `exit_code`, `stdout`, `stderr` — for troubleshooting.

> If you'd rather validate from the UI, the setup wizard's **Simulate test log received** button performs the same round-trip — see [Test the setup](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs/#test-the-setup) in the docs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you'd rather validate from the UI, the setup wizard's **Simulate test log received** button performs the same round-trip — refer [Test the setup](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs/#test-the-setup).
```

Author: Fixed.

<a id="adding-partitions"></a>
### Adding partitions to an existing setup

> Add new partitions by extending the `partition_tables` map on your existing `federated_logs` module — there is no need to declare standalone `newrelic_federated_logs_partition` resources. Each new entry creates the Glue table, the retention Glue job, and the matching `newrelic_federated_logs_partition` entity together as a single unit.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Add new partitions by extending the `partition_tables` map on your existing `federated_logs` module — no need to declare standalone `newrelic_federated_logs_partition` resources. Each new entry creates the Glue table, the retention Glue job, and the matching `newrelic_federated_logs_partition` entity together as a single unit.
```

Author: Fixed.

```hcl
module "federated_logs" {

  # ... your existing config ...
  setup_name = "my-app-logs"

  # ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  #      To add a new partition, simply add a new entry below in the
  #      partition_tables map in the module corresponding to the setup
  # ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  partition_tables = {
    # ... your existing partitions ...

    "Log_partition_name" = {
      retention_in_days = 30
      description       = "<DESCRIPTION>"
    }
  }
}
```

> Each entry in `partition_tables` may optionally override `retention_in_days`, `description`, `routing_expression`, `table_parameters`, and `optimizer_configuration`. Apply the change with the usual `terraform plan` / `terraform apply`; the new partition becomes visible in the New Relic UI under **Logs > Data Partitions > Federated Logs**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each entry in `partition_tables` may optionally override `retention_in_days`, `description`, `routing_expression`, `table_parameters`, and `optimizer_configuration`. Apply the change with the usual `terraform plan` / `terraform apply`; the new partition appears in the New Relic UI under **Logs > Data Partitions > Federated Logs**.
```

Author: Fixed.

> As with the initial setup, a new partition only starts receiving logs once you define its routing condition and roll the gateway configuration out from the wizard. The product docs cover the same steps for partitions in [Set up routing conditions](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs/#set-up-routing-conditions-1) and [Update gateway configuration](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs/#update-gateway-configuration-1).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As with the initial setup, a new partition only starts receiving logs after you define its routing condition and roll the gateway configuration out from the wizard. The product docs cover the same steps for partitions in [Set up routing conditions](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs/#set-up-routing-conditions-1) and [Update gateway configuration](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs/#update-gateway-configuration-1).
```

Author: Fixed.

<a id="query-federated-logs"></a>
### Querying federated logs

After `terraform apply` completes and the gateway deployment has rolled out, your logs are queryable from the New Relic Logs UI (select **Federated logs** in the **Partitions** dropdown) and from NRQL. Query federated partitions by using the partition name directly as the `FROM` source:

```sql
SELECT * FROM Log_federated SINCE 1 hour ago
```

See [Query federated logs](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs/#query) in the product docs for more examples.

<a id="cleanup"></a>

> ### Deleting a setup or partition

Reviewer 3: The information under this does not need a heading. Put it as a note after the the procedure of both setup and partition deletion.

As we are not mentioning how to delete a setup or partition under this section, you can remove this H3 completely, and make "Delete a setup" and "Delete a partition" heading H3.

The S3 bucket, Glue catalog database, partition folder objects, and Iceberg tables are all declared with `lifecycle { prevent_destroy = true }`, so `terraform destroy` will refuse to remove them and abort the plan. This is intentional: it keeps your historical log data from being accidentally deleted. In both scenarios below, the storage resources stay intact in AWS while everything else is deprovisioned cleanly.

<a id="delete-setup"></a>

> #### Deleting a setup

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Delete a setup
```

Author: Fixed.

1. **Comment out the existing `module "federated_logs"` block.** While the module declaration is present, Terraform considers all of its resources to be under active management and will reject `removed` blocks pointing at the same addresses. Commenting or deleting the module block first makes those addresses removable.

2. **Add `removed` blocks** for the protected storage resources so Terraform drops them from state without destroying them in AWS:

   ```hcl
   removed {
     from = module.federated_logs.module.setup
     lifecycle { destroy = false }
   }

   removed {
     from = module.federated_logs.module.partition.aws_s3_object.folder
     lifecycle { destroy = false }
   }

   removed {
     from = module.federated_logs.module.partition.aws_glue_catalog_table.iceberg_table
     lifecycle { destroy = false }
   }
   ```

3. Run `terraform plan` and `terraform apply`. The New Relic setup and its partitions remain visible in the UI but are no longer editable or queryable; the S3 bucket and Glue tables stay intact.

<a id="delete-partition"></a>

> #### Deleting a partition

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Delete a partition
```

Author: Fixed.

---
layout: "newrelic"
page_title: "Getting Started with New Relic Federated Logs"
sidebar_current: "docs-newrelic-provider-federated-logs-guide"
description: |-
  Use this guide to set up New Relic Federated Logs end-to-end through Terraform.
---

## Getting Started with New Relic Federated Logs

> With [New Relic Federated Logs](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs/) your log data stays securely in your own AWS environment. You can still query it directly from the New Relic platform alongside the rest of your telemetry.

Reviewer: Get approval from @hrai-nr also.

Reviewer 3: This link (https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs/) can be shared directly with customers only. Since this feature is not yet GA, do not post or publish the link in any publicly accessible document. Applied throughout

### Prerequisites

Before you onboard Federated Logs through Terraform, confirm the following:

* Your New Relic organization is **enrolled in the Federated Logs limited preview**.
* A **Pipeline Control Gateway fleet** is already deployed in your Kubernetes environment, with its DNS endpoint reachable from your log sources, and you know its **`fleet_entity_guid`**. If you don't yet have a fleet, follow [Getting Started with New Relic Fleet Control](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/newrelic/newrelic/latest/docs/guides/fleet_getting_started) and the [Pipeline Control Gateway documentation](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/new-relic-control/pipeline-control/overview/).
* Your **log sources are pointed at the gateway endpoint** rather than sending logs directly to New Relic. The per-source configuration (APM agents, infrastructure agent, Fluent Bit, Fluentd) is covered in [Configure your log source](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs/#configure-source) in the product docs.

> * Federated Logs currently supports **AWS only**, and the Query engine is deployed in **`us-west-2`**. Provision your AWS resources in that region for the preview.

Reviewer: Update this based on the new support added for mumbai region.

Reviewer 4: +1

Author: Fixed.

  newrelic_org_id     = "YOUR_NR_ORG_ID"
  newrelic_account_id = 1234567
  newrelic_region     = "US"

  data_retention_enabled = true

  default_table_setting = {
    retention_in_days = 30
    table_parameters = {
      "write.parquet.compression-codec"            = "zstd"
      "write.target-file-size-bytes"               = "67108864" # 64 MB
      "write.metadata.delete-after-commit.enabled" = "true"
      "write.metadata.previous-versions-max"       = "10"
    }
    optimizer_configuration = {
      orphan_file_deletion = {
        orphan_file_retention_period_in_days = 3
        run_rate_in_hours                    = 24
      }
      snapshot_retention = {
        snapshot_retention_period_in_days = 1
        number_of_snapshots_to_retain     = 1
        clean_expired_files               = false
        run_rate_in_hours                 = 3
      }
      compaction = {
        strategy              = "binpack"
        min_input_files       = 5
        delete_file_threshold = 1
      }
    }
  }

  # Additional partitions. Each entry can override retention, table_parameters,
  # optimizer_configuration, routing_expression, and/or description.
  partition_tables = {

>     "application_log" = {

Reviewer 4: Change these to Log_application format, all the partition name should start with **Log_**

Author: Fixed.

Each entry in `partition_tables` may optionally override `retention_in_days`, `description`, `routing_expression`, `table_parameters`, and `optimizer_configuration`. Apply the change with the usual `terraform plan` / `terraform apply`; the new partition becomes visible in the New Relic UI under **Logs > Data Partitions > Federated Logs**.

As with the initial setup, a new partition only starts receiving logs once you define its routing condition and roll the gateway configuration out from the wizard. The product docs cover the same steps for partitions in [Set up routing conditions](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs/#set-up-routing-conditions-1) and [Update gateway configuration](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs/#update-gateway-configuration-1).

<a id="query-federated-logs"></a>
### Querying federated logs

After `terraform apply` completes and the gateway deployment has rolled out, your logs are queryable from the New Relic Logs UI (select **Federated logs** in the **Partitions** dropdown) and from NRQL. Always include `log.partition` in NRQL queries so they route to your S3 bucket rather than New Relic's standard log storage:

```sql

> SELECT * FROM Log WHERE log.partition = 'log_federated' SINCE 1 hour ago

Reviewer 4: This is wrong and and error that comes from public docs. It should be 
**SELECT * FROM log_federated SINCE 1 hour ago**, 
Please check other sections updated in public docs: 
https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/federated-logs

Author: Fixed.

2. **Add `removed` blocks for the protected storage resources** so Terraform drops them from state without destroying them, while it deprovisions everything else around them:
```hcl
removed {
  from = module.federated_logs.module.setup
  lifecycle { destroy = false }
}

removed {
  from = module.federated_logs.module.partition.aws_s3_object.folder
  lifecycle { destroy = false }
}

removed {
  from = module.federated_logs.module.partition.aws_glue_catalog_table.iceberg_table
  lifecycle { destroy = false }
}
```

Then run `terraform plan` and `terraform apply`. The `removed` blocks drop the protected resources from Terraform state without deleting them in AWS, allowing the rest of the module including the New Relic entities to be deprovisioned cleanly. Afterwards, the New Relic setup and its partitions remain visible in the UI but are no longer editable or queryable; the S3 bucket and Glue tables stay intact so your historical log data is preserved.

<a id="delete-partition"></a>
### Deleting a federated log partition

> You can delete a Federated Logs partition without impacting the log data stored in your S3 bucket. The steps below use Terraform to remove the AWS resources provisioned for that partition, except the partition's S3 folder and its Glue table - those stay behind so the historical data remains readable.

Reviewer 4: The steps are mentioned in top while this heading is in bottom . Please fix it.
You have two headings:
###  Cleaning up a setup while preserving stored logs
and 
### Deleting a federated log partition

both are essentially same , should we not consolidate it in 1.

Author: Fixed.
